As a DeafBlind person,
Bryan: I don’t have anything in particular on
my wish list, but what I'd like to see
is more technology
that is simple to use in the future.
Because today there are so many different
ways to zoom on the screen
or use braille displays. We often
have to use two or more devices.
It's cumbersome. It's too much on us.
Oh, and cost. A lot of assistive
technology is expensive,
I'd like to see that reduced.
[music plays]
Chris: I agree. I'm on the
same page as you, Bryan.
And I'd like to see more smart technology.
To be able to turn on the lights
from pressing a few
buttons on my iPhone
or be able to adjust the thermostat
or turn on the hot water and so on.
With just a few clicks on my iPhone,
the ability to do all of that
from one device, that would be cool.
For me, it's important
because as my fields of vision reduces,
it becomes even more important to be able
to control everything from my iPhone.
Bapin: In the future,
I would like to be able to drive a car
using an autonomous vehicle.
That technology is not a 100% safe yet,
but I know that there are some blind
people involved in the testing,
but they haven't yet
included the ability to connect
braille displays in the car
through Bluetooth or USB.
If they do that,
I'd be able to set an address
or a destination
and the car could just take me there.
Second on
my wish list is a robotic human being.
I would like to join meetings through Zoom
or to make video phone calls,
but I can't see
the interpreter on the screen
which means I always have to hire
an interpreter using tactile sign language
to understand what is being said.
More and more deaf people
have gotten rid of their TTY,
so I can't communicate
directly with my deaf friends
anymore in real time.
I can really only text them.
I would love to have a robotic human
that could copy the signs of the person
on the screen tactilely to me
so that the deaf person on the screen
could communicate directly with me.
Scott: The other thing we have to remember
is that there are still barriers.
And I wanted to give
a couple of brief examples
of why that is, and also
some examples of why
things can still cause issues
for people with various disabilities.
As a DeafBlind person,
you're in a very tough spot in some ways,
although it's getting better.
And the reason for that
is that a lot of technology
that is developed for the blind
utilizes audio to convey
whatever information that
the blind person can access.
You know, for example,
a talking book player or,
you know, maybe they have
what's called an audio described movie
where a narrator will explain
to you the action that's on the screen.
A deaf person might have
a strobe light to wake them up.
They might
have any number
of other visual modifications
that help them work with things
that they're not able to access.
And don't get me wrong,
I'm not criticizing those.
I'm glad that those people have access
to those things
and that they're able to do it.
But the problem is,
if you haven't put it together yet,
that if you're deaf and blind,
well, you can't see the strobe light,
you can't hear the audio description.
So what do you do?
And this is a shortcoming that technology
developers are getting way more aware of.
I'll say that for it,
but it's a problem that has
manifested itself in different ways.
We talked about accessing
even the web, the internet.
Not every page is created
equally on that, on
the internet. Some websites
who have listings for jobs,
when you go to apply for them
that process is not fully accessible.
Here in the United States
and many other countries,
a lot of your identity
is based on what you do.
Well, what I do
may not be much in terms of a vocation
if I'm not able to even apply for that job.
So in my view,
hopefully we will have
self-driving cars one day.
Hopefully we'll have one universal device
that is accessible to everyone
and all you need to do is enable whatever
feature you need and you're good to go.
I foresee a day when that will happen,
and I have a lot of hope for the future.
We've come a long way.
We really have, but
we still have a long ways to go.
[music plays]
Scott: Disability can affect anybody.
It can be a part-time or temporary thing
or it can be a lifelong thing.
Whether maybe it's you
who has a disability,
perhaps you were in an accident
and now you have one.
I mean, if your son or daughter
all of a sudden became DeafBlind,
you'd probably want to know
what to do, right?
Or have a general idea
of what's out there.
Second reason,
like I said, is with inclusivity,
maybe you don't need the assistive
technology, but what if you work
with someone who does?
Wouldn't you want to communicate with them?
Chris: Great comment, Scott.
In addition, I have noticed
that assistive technology benefits
those that don't have a disability.
I have a good example of that.
So there's an employee
who work here at Helen Keller
who does not have a disability.
However, this individual has said
that they are tired
of reading the computer screen all day
and that it can be very taxing
on their eyes. I suggested
using ZoomText Fusion.
They said they didn't
need something like that
because they're not blind
and they don't have low vision.
But I suggested that they try it.
The first thing that employee did was
invert the colors on the computer screen
and almost immediately
notice that their eyes were less tired.
They hadn't realized staring at a white
bright screen all day was so problematic.
Simply by inverting the colors,
they were able to look at the computer
screen all day without issue.
I think that's a good example
of how a person
without a disability assumes they cannot
benefit from assistive technology
but because they may experience
tiredness or eye strain,
assistive technology can benefit them.
And at that point it may click
that assistive technology
is not only for people with disabilities,
it can open up their minds
to how it can apply to them.
Bapin: There used to be this separate
decoder caption device
for deaf people for closed captioning.
Today that technology, closed captions,
is built right into the television.
Hearing people benefit from that,
not just deaf people.
If the sound isn't on,
they can read the captions too.
Originally, the Wintel device
was made for deaf people
to be able to text,
but later it became popular with everyone.
Hearing people used it.
Again, benefitting from what was designed
with deaf people in mind.
Scot: Have you ever used a curb cut?
Maybe you have a child, an infant,
who is in a stroller.
Have you ever been in a bar
and had to use, maybe you
wanted to know what was going on
on the news or something and it was loud
and you use closed captioning?
Audiobooks.You ever wanted
to listen to a book instead of read it?
Maybe you're driving, maybe you're doing
whatever it is you're doing.
Those three examples
I just gave all came about
because people with disabilities
needed a different way to access material.
So adaptive technology
in some way, shape, or form can help
people who don't even have disabilities.
Chris: Thank you for sharing those examples.
They're important points, for sure.
Thank you, everyone, for being here.
[music ends]